Tell me, Lao Shih, what is the meaning of freedom?
The 21st Century's first great work of political philosophy is Charlie Goes America All Over
Everybody's Ass, Season 2 Episode 9 of It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia.
The episode begins with a dispute about smoking bans and bars.
I work in this bar.
I work here.
But that's because you have the freedom to choose to work here.
Charlie and Dee argue that they shouldn't have to work in a smoke-filled environment,
while Mac and Dennis argue that smoking bans are anti-freedom and un-American, prompting
Charlie and Dee to leave the bar to join an anti-smoking crusade.
Meanwhile, Mac, Dennis, and Frank plot to turn patties into the most American bar in
all of America.
We will open up patties as the most American bar in all of America, a place with absolute
freedom.
Their explicit intention is to create a space with no rules and no restrictions, a place
where anything goes.
However, it's clear from the ensuing discussion that they have a specific vision of what a
no-rules bar would be like—namely, a bar where they, the straight-ish white men, are
in charge, and where hot college co-eds want to go wild and remove their tops, like at
Mardi Gras in New Orleans.
The problem is that the allure of a no-rules bar soon attracts Frank's Vietnamese gambling
ring, as well as the degenerate McPoils, the presence of whom creates an environment where
hot college co-eds don't really feel like going wild.
This prompts Mac and Dennis to realize that having no rules doesn't really produce the
situation they were hoping for, but when they propose setting some boundaries, Frank throws
their freedom-loving rhetoric right back at them.
The situation at the bar soon devolves into a nightmare of milky incest, drug addiction,
weird Vietnamese music, and the gang all accusing one another of treading on freedom.
Dennis and Mac are finally forced to accept defeat, and the episode ends with them reluctantly
agreeing to call the cops.
This episode is so efficient at conveying the paradoxes of freedom, it should honestly
be taught in university courses.
It shows the way an abstract value like freedom is always invoked in particular circumstances.
It's always imagined as the freedom of specific people to do specific things without the constraint
of specific regulations.
So for Mac and Dennis, freedom means the freedom of Mac and Dennis to host a Girls Gone Wild
Mardi Gras-type situation without the constraint of rules banning toplessness.
It doesn't initially occur to them that the presence of Vietnamese gamblers and milk-guzzling
perverts might also have an inhibiting effect.
This general pattern is repeated when it comes to freedom of speech.
At the level of government, the US Constitution prohibits Congress from making laws restricting
the freedom of speech.
But in any given forum of discussion, you'll find there are always rules restricting what
you can say.
Let's take a look at 4chan, much celebrated as a den of total anarchy.
A RULES?
Wait, but I thought 4chan loved freedom.
I thought it was the most American image board in all of America.
Well thank god there's still Newgrounds.
Hold on, racism is not allowed on 4chan, except on B. But even on B you aren't allowed to
post about My Little Pony.
This is outrageous!
What about brony freedom, 4chan?
I will stand up for the bronies.
The point is, any forum needs to have a few rules in place in order to maintain the purpose
and functionality of the forum.
Now you might say, well, who do we trust to make the rules, and what's to stop the rules
from being abused once they're in place?
Well, welcome to the most basic problem of political theory, a problem that is unavoidable.
We'll always be arguing over what the rules should be, who gets to make them, and how
they should be enforced.
But just because the current rules suck, or are administered incompetently, doesn't mean
that we can or should have no rules, and not even 4chan disagrees with me here, at least
not in practice.
Because even if your forum is a den of fascism and child pornography, there will always come
a moment when everyone looks around at each other and says, maybe we need to set up a
couple boundaries.
It's a free country, bitch.
I don't know why brony posts are restricted to a specific section of 4chan, but I'm guessing
it was because bronies wouldn't stop posting their goddamn shit everywhere and it was driving
everyone crazy and ruining the site.
Likewise, the most American bar in America probably needs to have rules against gambling,
milk, and incest, at least if they want to maintain an environment where hot coeds feel
like going wild.
And universities probably shouldn't be hosting goddamn trolls whose only stated purpose is
Keck-triggering liberals if they want to remain spaces where intellectual discussion among
students and faculty with a diversity of viewpoints can flourish.
But this disinvitation issue has been seized by commentators like Dave Rubin, who object
to the cancellation of bullying dinguses with no redeeming value, or of commencement speakers
who are there to preside over a celebration more than to discuss ideas anyway.
And all of this gets blown way out of proportion.
The many right-wing speakers who regularly appear on college campuses are ignored, the
left-wing speakers who are disinvited are ignored, and Dave keeps harping on the left-hates-free-speech
talking point.
Why?
Well, because it allows him to adopt this phony neutral posture of a centrist defending
free speech, when what he's really doing is smearing and discrediting social justice
movements while sidestepping any deep engagement with their actual ideas.
Now I should say that disinviting speakers is not generally a good way to deal with proponents
of offensive views on campus, and students do sometimes abuse this approach to disinvite
speakers who actually do have something to say, offensive and false though it may be.
But Milo Yiannopoulos is nothing but an open saboteur of the discourse, and his absence
only makes conversations between liberals and good-faith conservatives easier.
Now this is not to say I support the student riots at Berkeley and elsewhere aimed at shutting
down people like Yiannopoulos and Ann Coulter.
I actually don't.
I mean, I understand why they riot, and I sympathize to a certain extent, but honestly
we don't even need to have the conversation about the morality of silencing Milo, since
no leftist attempt to deplatform him ever did anything except add to his celebrity and
amplify his voice.
Milo was never successfully silenced, until the right-wingers at CPAC and Breitbart decided
to deplatform him once and for all.
So tell me, Dave, who hates free speech now?
Freedom is life.
Life is vitality.
Vitality is the milk of the wolf.
When I was a grad student, I went to a talk by a pretty famous philosopher.
He was speaking about ancient Greek philosophy and the superiority of the contemplative life
over all other ways of living.
During the question and answer session, a black woman raised her hand.
She was one of the only people of colour in the room, typical for academic philosophy,
and probably the only black woman there.
She asked, isn't it a little elitist to suggest that being a philosopher is the best way to
live your life?
And the professor responded, well, I don't see anything elitist about it.
I mean, I only teach Princeton students, but after all, there were slave women in the garden
of Epicurus.
At which point I was thinking, I would rather lie down with a goat than continue being in
this room.
And if that's how I felt, how did she feel?
And the professor, hold on, I'm not in this field anymore, I don't have to protect anybody.
You know what?
It was John Cooper of Princeton University, the editor of this very famous Plato anthology.
What do we got here?
What's this?
What's...
Boy, Plato, complete works.
Cooper!
This is a call out.
What you have to realize is each year every philosophy department in America has these
meetings where they all sit around and ask, why are there not more black people in academic
philosophy?
It's just a total mystery.
And what Cooper said wasn't even outright bigotry, I mean, it was a microaggression.
But these kinds of things can add up.
My friend was just telling me that he's in a class at a top American law school with
an 80 year old white professor who said the word n***a several times in class.
And he presumably wasn't trying to cause offense, but a girl in the class, the only black student,
started to cry, ran out of the room, and dropped the course.
So there was only one black student in the course, and now there are none.
And you can say, well that student just needs to toughen up.
And as a pragmatic matter, that is what black people usually do and have always done.
But also, don't tell black people to toughen up.
Black people in America have been very tough for decades and centuries.
They've been much tougher than you, I guarantee it.
And I'm not saying I think these professors should be fired, but I think it's a definite
problem that without even really thinking about it, certain kinds of speech can create
a campus environment that's hostile to certain groups of people.
So again, the question we ought to be discussing is what kind of forum do we want universities
to be?
Who gets to feel welcome or unwelcome?
Should we allow posts about My Little Pony?
Does hosting speeches by outright bigots foster or detract from the kind of environment we
want to create?
These are legitimate questions.
Questions we should all be discussing instead of the fake question, does the left hate free
speech?
Because what's up for discussion are not constitutional rights, but the norms of conduct for a particular
forum.
And no one with a mature understanding of the issue would say that there should just
be no rules, man.
That is the position of a 16-year-old white kid who's angry that he can't say the N-word,
or that he can't post brony shit on B.
The ether is the light, but not all light reveals.
Sometimes truth dwells in darkness.
I'm singing in the rain, just singing in the rain.
Never in my lifetime have I seen a bigger tantrum thrown over something so small as
trigger warnings.
The practice of adding warnings to media containing potentially triggering content originates
in online communities of feminists and rape survivors.
Effectively, it's a courtesy measure, akin to warning readers that pictures in an article
may not be safe for work.
Trigger warnings are apparently now sometimes used in universities, though I have to say
I was a university student and then a professor until 2016 and I never once encountered a
goddamn trigger warning.
But for some reason, a few journalists and a lot of classical liberal YouTubers have
decided that trigger warnings are a major threat to our most fundamental freedoms, and
a lot of their audience has apparently believed them without really thinking about it or looking
into it at all.
Oh, and safe spaces, too.
Let's not forget about safe spaces.
From the way classical liberals talk, you'd think a safe space is a fortified area designed
to permanently protect sniveling, terrified wrecks of human beings from ever encountering
an idea they disagree with.
In fact, the term safe space originates in LGBT communities, and designates a business,
a bar, a forum, or any other venue where homophobia isn't tolerated.
The concept is decades old, but recently it's been spotlighted by classical liberals claiming
that campus safe spaces are, you guessed it, a harbinger of the death of free speech.
The argument usually goes that safe spaces keep people from encountering ideas they disagree
with, and so they have an infantilizing and a silencing effect.
To which I respond that when gay people are so sheltered that they just have no idea what
homophobia is, and whaaaat?
Some people think marriage is only between a man and a woman.
Who ever heard of such an outlandish idea?
Well, then I'll admit that things have maybe gone a bit too far.
But in the meantime, gay people not experiencing enough homophobia is not really striking me
as a pressing social issue.
For my own part, it's nice to have certain places I can go, and certain communities I
can be with, where I cannot have my gender identity or expression constantly questioned,
and I can just relax and be myself, and not be constantly interrogated about it.
But it's not like having safe spaces means that I've just never heard the idea that there
are only two genders.
And whaaaat?
Like, we all have this idea imposed on us every day of our goddamn lives.
The fact that I want a two second break from it is not silencing or infantilizing.
Remember Hitchens' defensive ideas that need special protection?
Oh, that person doesn't just have a right to speak.
That person's right to speak must be given extra protection.
Because what he has to say must have taken him some effort to come up with.
The idea that there are two genders is the default idea.
The idea that I don't fit the binary was the idea it took effort to come up with.
I find the notion that every commonplace prejudice and assumption needs special protection ridiculous.
And you'll notice that critics of trigger warnings and safe spaces are usually pretty
short on concrete examples of how these things actually erode free speech.
I mean, I've heard people talk about the ways trigger warnings and safe spaces can be misused,
and fair enough, that's a discussion worth having.
But more often I see people alluding to them as a kind of emblem.
Trigger warning and safe space culture, in order to caricature college age leftists as
delicate whiny snowflakes, which, well, there might be a little truth to that.
But you're lying if you pretend that this is fundamentally about free speech.
And worse, you're doing it at the expense of people who have suffered actual trauma,
and have embattled minority groups whose request for safe spaces is perfectly reasonable.
So your sly attempt to invoke liberal values like free speech and diversity to malign these
people is taking a pretty low road indeed.
And I want to ask people who constantly make jokes about trigger warnings and safe spaces,
what percentage of confidence are you at that you're not just being a huge fucking asshole
for no reason?
The dark mother casts shade over the blinding fire, revealing in shadow what was hidden
by the light.
Dave, I know I'm throwing a lot of criticism at you, and that sucks for you because being
criticized sucks.
Personally, I hate criticism.
It's trash.
But you of all people should be willing to acknowledge that hearing criticism of your
own viewpoint is a necessary part of, like, growth or whatever.
And I like to think that the two of us aren't so far apart ideologically that we can't talk
to each other at all, but I worry that more and more of the people I interact with are
that far apart.
It's kind of a scary time to be alive, Dave, and I know you believe in something called
the free marketplace of ideas.
You believe that the best ideas will come out on top, so long as their proponents are
given a fair chance to argue for them.
That must be a very comforting belief, but I regret to say I don't share the optimism.
The human mind is not very rational.
People pick up most of their beliefs from the culture around them, and oftentimes people
seem to believe things for really self-interested reasons that have nothing to do with what
is true or what the strongest arguments support.
So when I see all kinds of bigotry gaining traction instead of fading away as my upbringing
led me to expect, it makes me afraid for a lot of people I care about, and I kind of
freak out because I don't have faith that having good facts and arguments on my side
will be enough.
I'm honestly not sure that truth and justice will prevail, so if I seem a little on edge,
that's probably part of the reason why.
And I know you don't agree, but I just thought you should know that.
Now if you'll excuse me, I'll be heading back to my safe space with a **** and a big fat
****, which I'm going to shove deep inside of my ****, but first I like to take a big
juicy **** and I like to just kind of **** and just **** it up and down **** and then
I like to take my big **** and I like to just **** and just **** it all over the goddamn
place until I **** the ball all over and then I like to **** and I like the sound that it
makes and I like especially when **** **** **** **** **** **** **** **** **** **** **** **** ****.
This is where I like it.
This is what feels good to me.
Thank you.
Special thanks to David Blair, Charles Fleming, Al King, Danaara, Ms. Contrary, Garrett Mitchell,
Matthew Ginther, Eden Erickson, Fully Automated Luxury Space Post-Scarcity Communism, Olivia
Stewart, Phyllo, TC Enders, Will Rainsford, Kolbein Mani, Nefarious Devil, John Redford,
Maxine Avalon Lucero, Alana Kelly, Vibka, Joe Benavides, Jack Creature, 9D Guy, Kurt
C. Yoss, Madster Hansen, Sherry Lossner, Wilder Penrose, Joseph McIntosh, Veronica
and Oliver, Chip Moulter, Stone Nishino, Amy Leche, Howie, Rinaldo Fev, Gamer152, and all
the other patrons who fill me up deep inside with their sweet sweet loving.
Also I just made an Instagram.
And follow me on Instagram.
Tell me Laoshi, who is the man in the triangle?
Who is the triangle man?
Who is the man in the triangle?